5.2-beta changelog (#13390)
Ultimaker/Cura: resources/texts/change_log.txt

[5.2-BETA]

* Abstract Cloud Printer Type

> For currently online cloud printers, they are collated by type, and you can slice on the ('abstract') printer-type, then choose the specific printer that matches the profiles afterwards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Online cloud printers are now collated by type. You can slice with the ('abstract') printer-type, and afterwards choose a specific printer to print with.
```

* Support For 'Guest'-Type Accounts (In Digital Factory)

> Colleagues or students in a ‘Guest’ role can prepare print jobs in Ultimaker Cura and send them to the printers via Digital Factory. Print jobs prepared like this will not start immediately but wait for approval from a user with an 'Member' or 'Admin' role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users with the ‘Guest’ role can prepare print jobs in Ultimaker Cura and send them to the printers via Digital Factory. These print jobs will not start until they are approved by a user with an 'Member' or 'Admin' role.
```

* More Control Over Initial Layer Flow
Three new settings: 'Initial Layer Outer Wall Flow', 'Initial Layer Inner Wall Flow', 'Initial Layer Bottom Flow', to better counteract the 'elephants foot' phenomenon.

* Other new features and improvements:
- Auto-remove holes from not completely solid models in vase-mode.
- Add setting for 'tree support max diameter'.
- Add option to drop-down models to the build-plate individually. contributed to @Piezoid
- Added a preference to make the tray icon optional. contributed by @fieldOfView

* Bug fixes:
- Don't ignore bottom pattern when spiralizing.
- Don't 'Union All' for 'Merged Meshes Overlap'.
- Seam placement was not in the correct corner in some cases.
- Cutting meshes with 'surface' set to 'both' cut through the mesh.
- Brim lines where ordered the wrong way in some cases.
- Random seam is now more random.
- Correctly apply combing when spiralizing. contributed by @smartavionics

> - Don't spam the user with spurious 'Cura Notification's.

Author: This is the windows one, not the mac, will clarify.

- Fixed a crash when an unnamed tool would be accessed (possibly related to plugin use).
- Fix an issue where a plugin would crash because of a missing dependency.
- Code refactors contributed by @digitalfrost
- Fix for to-mouse zoom on screens with scaling factor. contributed by @seaniepie
- Models could not be multiplied in one-at-a-time mode.

* Printer definitions, profiles and materials:
- Added Creality Ender 3 S1 profile. contributed by @Sebazzz
- Added Anycubic Kobra (Max). contributed by @ANYCUBIC-3D
- Added HCTECH printers. contributed by @3d-hctech
- Added da Vinci Pro EVO. contributed by @heed818
- Fix FLSUN QQ-S platform orientation. contributed by @RVillani
- Fix Kingroon printers from going outside the build-volume in the end-gcode. contributed by @odaki
- Added Geetech Mizar_S. contributed by @Geeetech3D
- Added Tank-M printer. contributed by KOONOVO3DPrinter
- Update Renkforce RF100XL definition. contributed by @imakecodes
- Added VzBot profiles. contributed by @ckvsoft
- Added (additional) mingda printers. contributed by @jianshu-du
- Added Naxe machines. contributed by @Naxecorp
- Added T-Rex 2+, T-Rex 3. contributed by @jim-edwards

> - Update FLsun SR. @xPakrikx

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Update FLsun SR. contributed by @xPakrikx
```

- Update Anycubic mega zero. contributed by @NOVAXIM
- Added some Renkforce machines. contributed by @goofoo3d

* Community translations (pending):
- Updated the Brazilian Portuguese translation, contributed by Patola.
- Updated the Czech translation, contributed by sustmi.

* Known critical issues:
- While some small fixes have been made already, the placement of the seam is still more scattered than before 5.0. (Will try to fix in stable.)
- Support is sometimes missing in detailed parts, where previous releases supported them properly (still). (Will probably not be fixed in stable. This is currently slated for 5.3)

> - Multiple external monitors on Windows (especially if from the same brand) might be a problem under some circumstances. (Will probably not be fixed in stable.)

Reviewer 2: We usually don't add @-signs in the changelog; we only do that in github's release notes.
```suggestion
[5.2-BETA]

* Abstract Cloud Printer Type
For currently online cloud printers, they are collated by type, and you can slice on the ('abstract') printer-type, then choose the specific printer that matches the profiles afterwards.

* Support For 'Student'-Type Accounts (In Digital Factory)
Accounts can have a 'Student'/'Teacher' relationship, where permission is needed for printing, when a print is sent via cloud.

* More Control Over Initial Layer Flow
Three new settings: 'Initial Layer Outer Wall Flow', 'Initial Layer Inner Wall Flow', 'Initial Layer Bottom Flow', to better counteract the 'elephants foot' phenomenon.

* Other new features and improvements:
- Auto-remove holes from not completely solid models in vase-mode.
- Add setting for 'tree support max diameter'.
- Add option to drop-down models to the build-plate individually. contributed to Piezoid
- Added a preference to make the tray icon optional. contributed by fieldOfView

* Bug fixes:
- Don't ignore bottom pattern when spiralizing.
- Don't 'Union All' for 'Merged Meshes Overlap'.
- Seam placement was not in the correct corner in some cases.
- Cutting meshes with 'surface' set to 'both' cut through the mesh.
- Brim lines where ordered the wrong way in some cases.
- Random seam is now more random.
- Correctly apply combing when spiralizing. contributed by smartavionics
- Don't spam the user with spurious 'Cura Notification's.
- Don't spam the logs with duplicated deprecated warnings. contributed by Patschke
- Properly update the infill percentage in the top bar after an intent profile switch.
- An uninstall could only be done by the original user that installed.
- In certain rare situations, layers would be printed multiple times when monotonic fill was on.
- Put tree support infill density at 0% by default.
- Machine settings: Also save values when closing the window, not just when focus' changed.
- Reduce clickable area of settings checkboxes, to prevent mis-clicks.
- Fixed a crash when an unnamed tool would be accessed (possibly related to plugin use).
- Fix an issue where a plugin would crash because of a missing dependency.
- Code refactors contributed by digitalfrost
- Fix for to-mouse zoom on screens with scaling factor. contributed by seaniepie
- Models could not be multiplied in one-at-a-time mode.

* Printer definitions, profiles and materials:
- Added Creality Ender 3 S1 profile. contributed by Sebazzz
- Added Anycubic Kobra (Max). contributed by ANYCUBIC-3D
- Added HCTECH printers. contributed by 3d-hctech
- Added da Vinci Pro EVO. contributed by heed818
- Fix FLSUN QQ-S platform orientation. contributed by RVillani
- Fix Kingroon printers from going outside the build-volume in the end-gcode. contributed by odaki
- Added Geetech Mizar_S. contributed by Geeetech3D
- Added Tank-M printer. contributed by KOONOVO3DPrinter
- Update Renkforce RF100XL definition. contributed by imakecodes
- Added VzBot profiles. contributed by ckvsoft
- Added (additional) mingda printers. contributed by jianshu-du
- Added Naxe machines. contributed by Naxecorp
- Added T-Rex 2+, T-Rex 3. contributed by jim-edwards
- Update FLsun SR. xPakrikx
- Update Anycubic mega zero. contributed by NOVAXIM
- Added some Renkforce machines. contributed by goofoo3d

* Community translations (pending):
- Updated the Brazilian Portuguese translation, contributed by Patola.
- Updated the Czech translation, contributed by sustmi.

* Known critical issues:
- While some small fixes have been made already, the placement of the seam is still more scattered than before 5.0. (Will try to fix in stable.)
- Support is sometimes missing in detailed parts, where previous releases supported them properly (still). (Will probably not be fixed in stable. This is currently slated for 5.3)
- Multiple external monitors on Windows (especially if from the same brand) might be a problem under some circumstances. (Will probably not be fixed in stable.)
```

Author: done!

> - Multiple external monitors on Windows (especially if from the same brand) might be a problem under some circumstances. (Will probably not be fixed in stable.)

Reviewer 2: We usually don't add @-signs in the changelog; we only do that in github's release notes.
```suggestion
[5.2-BETA]

* Abstract Cloud Printer Type
For currently online cloud printers, they are collated by type, and you can slice on the ('abstract') printer-type, then choose the specific printer that matches the profiles afterwards.

* Support For 'Student'-Type Accounts (In Digital Factory)
Accounts can have a 'Student'/'Teacher' relationship, where permission is needed for printing, when a print is sent via cloud.

* More Control Over Initial Layer Flow
Three new settings: 'Initial Layer Outer Wall Flow', 'Initial Layer Inner Wall Flow', 'Initial Layer Bottom Flow', to better counteract the 'elephants foot' phenomenon.

* Other new features and improvements:
- Auto-remove holes from not completely solid models in vase-mode.
- Add setting for 'tree support max diameter'.
- Add option to drop-down models to the build-plate individually. contributed to Piezoid
- Added a preference to make the tray icon optional. contributed by fieldOfView

* Bug fixes:
- Don't ignore bottom pattern when spiralizing.
- Don't 'Union All' for 'Merged Meshes Overlap'.
- Seam placement was not in the correct corner in some cases.
- Cutting meshes with 'surface' set to 'both' cut through the mesh.
- Brim lines where ordered the wrong way in some cases.
- Random seam is now more random.
- Correctly apply combing when spiralizing. contributed by smartavionics
- Don't spam the user with spurious 'Cura Notification's.
- Don't spam the logs with duplicated deprecated warnings. contributed by Patschke
- Properly update the infill percentage in the top bar after an intent profile switch.
- An uninstall could only be done by the original user that installed.
- In certain rare situations, layers would be printed multiple times when monotonic fill was on.
- Put tree support infill density at 0% by default.
- Machine settings: Also save values when closing the window, not just when focus' changed.
- Reduce clickable area of settings checkboxes, to prevent mis-clicks.
- Fixed a crash when an unnamed tool would be accessed (possibly related to plugin use).
- Fix an issue where a plugin would crash because of a missing dependency.
- Code refactors contributed by digitalfrost
- Fix for to-mouse zoom on screens with scaling factor. contributed by seaniepie
- Models could not be multiplied in one-at-a-time mode.

* Printer definitions, profiles and materials:
- Added Creality Ender 3 S1 profile. contributed by Sebazzz
- Added Anycubic Kobra (Max). contributed by ANYCUBIC-3D
- Added HCTECH printers. contributed by 3d-hctech
- Added da Vinci Pro EVO. contributed by heed818
- Fix FLSUN QQ-S platform orientation. contributed by RVillani
- Fix Kingroon printers from going outside the build-volume in the end-gcode. contributed by odaki
- Added Geetech Mizar_S. contributed by Geeetech3D
- Added Tank-M printer. contributed by KOONOVO3DPrinter
- Update Renkforce RF100XL definition. contributed by imakecodes
- Added VzBot profiles. contributed by ckvsoft
- Added (additional) mingda printers. contributed by jianshu-du
- Added Naxe machines. contributed by Naxecorp
- Added T-Rex 2+, T-Rex 3. contributed by jim-edwards
- Update FLsun SR. xPakrikx
- Update Anycubic mega zero. contributed by NOVAXIM
- Added some Renkforce machines. contributed by goofoo3d

* Community translations (pending):
- Updated the Brazilian Portuguese translation, contributed by Patola.
- Updated the Czech translation, contributed by sustmi.

* Known critical issues:
- While some small fixes have been made already, the placement of the seam is still more scattered than before 5.0. (Will try to fix in stable.)
- Support is sometimes missing in detailed parts, where previous releases supported them properly (still). (Will probably not be fixed in stable. This is currently slated for 5.3)
- Multiple external monitors on Windows (especially if from the same brand) might be a problem under some circumstances. (Will probably not be fixed in stable.)
```

> - Multiple external monitors on Windows (especially if from the same brand) might be a problem under some circumstances. (Will probably not be fixed in stable.)

Reviewer 2: We usually don't add @-signs in the changelog; we only do that in github's release notes.
```suggestion
[5.2-BETA]

* Abstract Cloud Printer Type
For currently online cloud printers, they are collated by type, and you can slice on the ('abstract') printer-type, then choose the specific printer that matches the profiles afterwards.

* Support For 'Student'-Type Accounts (In Digital Factory)
Accounts can have a 'Student'/'Teacher' relationship, where permission is needed for printing, when a print is sent via cloud.

* More Control Over Initial Layer Flow
Three new settings: 'Initial Layer Outer Wall Flow', 'Initial Layer Inner Wall Flow', 'Initial Layer Bottom Flow', to better counteract the 'elephants foot' phenomenon.

* Other new features and improvements:
- Auto-remove holes from not completely solid models in vase-mode.
- Add setting for 'tree support max diameter'.
- Add option to drop-down models to the build-plate individually. contributed to Piezoid
- Added a preference to make the tray icon optional. contributed by fieldOfView

* Bug fixes:
- Don't ignore bottom pattern when spiralizing.
- Don't 'Union All' for 'Merged Meshes Overlap'.
- Seam placement was not in the correct corner in some cases.
- Cutting meshes with 'surface' set to 'both' cut through the mesh.
- Brim lines where ordered the wrong way in some cases.
- Random seam is now more random.
- Correctly apply combing when spiralizing. contributed by smartavionics
- Don't spam the user with spurious 'Cura Notification's.
- Don't spam the logs with duplicated deprecated warnings. contributed by Patschke
- Properly update the infill percentage in the top bar after an intent profile switch.
- An uninstall could only be done by the original user that installed.
- In certain rare situations, layers would be printed multiple times when monotonic fill was on.
- Put tree support infill density at 0% by default.
- Machine settings: Also save values when closing the window, not just when focus' changed.
- Reduce clickable area of settings checkboxes, to prevent mis-clicks.
- Fixed a crash when an unnamed tool would be accessed (possibly related to plugin use).
- Fix an issue where a plugin would crash because of a missing dependency.
- Code refactors contributed by digitalfrost
- Fix for to-mouse zoom on screens with scaling factor. contributed by seaniepie
- Models could not be multiplied in one-at-a-time mode.

* Printer definitions, profiles and materials:
- Added Creality Ender 3 S1 profile. contributed by Sebazzz
- Added Anycubic Kobra (Max). contributed by ANYCUBIC-3D
- Added HCTECH printers. contributed by 3d-hctech
- Added da Vinci Pro EVO. contributed by heed818
- Fix FLSUN QQ-S platform orientation. contributed by RVillani
- Fix Kingroon printers from going outside the build-volume in the end-gcode. contributed by odaki
- Added Geetech Mizar_S. contributed by Geeetech3D
- Added Tank-M printer. contributed by KOONOVO3DPrinter
- Update Renkforce RF100XL definition. contributed by imakecodes
- Added VzBot profiles. contributed by ckvsoft
- Added (additional) mingda printers. contributed by jianshu-du
- Added Naxe machines. contributed by Naxecorp
- Added T-Rex 2+, T-Rex 3. contributed by jim-edwards
- Update FLsun SR. xPakrikx
- Update Anycubic mega zero. contributed by NOVAXIM
- Added some Renkforce machines. contributed by goofoo3d

* Community translations (pending):
- Updated the Brazilian Portuguese translation, contributed by Patola.
- Updated the Czech translation, contributed by sustmi.

* Known critical issues:
- While some small fixes have been made already, the placement of the seam is still more scattered than before 5.0. (Will try to fix in stable.)
- Support is sometimes missing in detailed parts, where previous releases supported them properly (still). (Will probably not be fixed in stable. This is currently slated for 5.3)
- Multiple external monitors on Windows (especially if from the same brand) might be a problem under some circumstances. (Will probably not be fixed in stable.)
```

> - Multiple external monitors on Windows (especially if from the same brand) might be a problem under some circumstances. (Will probably not be fixed in stable.)

Reviewer 2: We usually don't add @-signs in the changelog; we only do that in github's release notes.
```suggestion
[5.2-BETA]

* Abstract Cloud Printer Type
For currently online cloud printers, they are collated by type, and you can slice on the ('abstract') printer-type, then choose the specific printer that matches the profiles afterwards.

* Support For 'Student'-Type Accounts (In Digital Factory)
Accounts can have a 'Student'/'Teacher' relationship, where permission is needed for printing, when a print is sent via cloud.

* More Control Over Initial Layer Flow
Three new settings: 'Initial Layer Outer Wall Flow', 'Initial Layer Inner Wall Flow', 'Initial Layer Bottom Flow', to better counteract the 'elephants foot' phenomenon.

* Other new features and improvements:
- Auto-remove holes from not completely solid models in vase-mode.
- Add setting for 'tree support max diameter'.
- Add option to drop-down models to the build-plate individually. contributed to Piezoid
- Added a preference to make the tray icon optional. contributed by fieldOfView

* Bug fixes:
- Don't ignore bottom pattern when spiralizing.
- Don't 'Union All' for 'Merged Meshes Overlap'.
- Seam placement was not in the correct corner in some cases.
- Cutting meshes with 'surface' set to 'both' cut through the mesh.
- Brim lines where ordered the wrong way in some cases.
- Random seam is now more random.
- Correctly apply combing when spiralizing. contributed by smartavionics
- Don't spam the user with spurious 'Cura Notification's.
- Don't spam the logs with duplicated deprecated warnings. contributed by Patschke
- Properly update the infill percentage in the top bar after an intent profile switch.
- An uninstall could only be done by the original user that installed.
- In certain rare situations, layers would be printed multiple times when monotonic fill was on.
- Put tree support infill density at 0% by default.
- Machine settings: Also save values when closing the window, not just when focus' changed.
- Reduce clickable area of settings checkboxes, to prevent mis-clicks.
- Fixed a crash when an unnamed tool would be accessed (possibly related to plugin use).
- Fix an issue where a plugin would crash because of a missing dependency.
- Code refactors contributed by digitalfrost
- Fix for to-mouse zoom on screens with scaling factor. contributed by seaniepie
- Models could not be multiplied in one-at-a-time mode.

* Printer definitions, profiles and materials:
- Added Creality Ender 3 S1 profile. contributed by Sebazzz
- Added Anycubic Kobra (Max). contributed by ANYCUBIC-3D
- Added HCTECH printers. contributed by 3d-hctech
- Added da Vinci Pro EVO. contributed by heed818
- Fix FLSUN QQ-S platform orientation. contributed by RVillani
- Fix Kingroon printers from going outside the build-volume in the end-gcode. contributed by odaki
- Added Geetech Mizar_S. contributed by Geeetech3D
- Added Tank-M printer. contributed by KOONOVO3DPrinter
- Update Renkforce RF100XL definition. contributed by imakecodes
- Added VzBot profiles. contributed by ckvsoft
- Added (additional) mingda printers. contributed by jianshu-du
- Added Naxe machines. contributed by Naxecorp
- Added T-Rex 2+, T-Rex 3. contributed by jim-edwards
- Update FLsun SR. xPakrikx
- Update Anycubic mega zero. contributed by NOVAXIM
- Added some Renkforce machines. contributed by goofoo3d

* Community translations (pending):
- Updated the Brazilian Portuguese translation, contributed by Patola.
- Updated the Czech translation, contributed by sustmi.

* Known critical issues:
- While some small fixes have been made already, the placement of the seam is still more scattered than before 5.0. (Will try to fix in stable.)
- Support is sometimes missing in detailed parts, where previous releases supported them properly (still). (Will probably not be fixed in stable. This is currently slated for 5.3)
- Multiple external monitors on Windows (especially if from the same brand) might be a problem under some circumstances. (Will probably not be fixed in stable.)
```
